Hey, guys this is Lecture 10,
Array Transposition.
So, in this lecture, we'll be learning
how to transpose arrays in NumPy.
So, let's go ahead and start off,
importing numpy as np.
Alt-Enter to get a new cell.
Let's create an array, and
we'll use arrange to do this.
So that's gonna give us 50
points from zero to 49.
And then let's reshape it into a 10 by
5 matrix and then we'll just show it.
Cool, so I have 0 to 49, in a 10 by 5.
Since the index starts at zero, that's
why it doesn't go all the way to 50.
But we have 50 points, 10 times 5.
So to transpose this matrix,
it's actually pretty easy in numpy.
All we gotta do is select our matrix and
call .t onto it,
and then you see it's been transposed.
So the first row of our previous array has
never been transposed as our first column.
Cool.
And, numpy also allows you to
take dot products of arrays.
So, you can do that by calling np.dot.
And so we can do the dot product of the
transposed array with our original array.
And here we have the dot
product of those two arrays.
And we can also make 3D matrices.
Even though we won't be using
it that much in this course,
we can go ahead and just see how it works.
So we'll make a 3D matrix.
Again, let's call our range 50 points,
and we'll reshape it as a five
deep matrix with 5 by 2 arrays.
So, let's see what that
actually looks like.
So here we have basically the five
slices of that 3D matrix,
and each slice consists
of a five by two array.
And if you want,
you can also transpose a 3D matrix.
In order to do that we can
call transpose on that matrix.
And we'll have to specify
which axis to use.
So for instance, if we transpose this way,
we'll get on that first slice
the first column will be all the zero,
zero of every individual slice.
So if we look back at the original 3D
array matrix, we had a zero, a ten,
a 20, a 30, a 40 as the first row,
and first column indexed value.
And now that's become the first
column of that first slice.
And you can see how that
same transposition carries
out to the rest of the array.
And last but not least if we want
to get really specific on swapping
axis in an array,
we can actually call swap axis onto it.
To show you what I'm talking about lets go
ahead and make another array real quick.
We'll just call this one let's see.
We'll have it be one, two, and three.
And we'll show it.
All right, so we have our array there.
And let's say you wanted to be
specific on how to swap axes,
you can actually call swapaxes.
So we can swap the zero axis with the one
axis, and let's see what happens.
Now you have a vertical array.
Cool.
And that's about it as far
as a array transposition.
I'll see you in the next lesson.